hey do you want to show your support for
the show you can do exactly that by
wearing shirts just like this you find
them at bit.ly/msubizlib for wear the
cops at hey where's my smoke yeah yeah
yeah post 70s like late 70s in the early
80s everything was about the CB and what
you were getting away with did you ever
pick a handle no I should the monarch of
boundless suffering literally playing
Dungeons & Dragons of the sea below I
will now roll for initiative we should
do that all right we're back with Josh
Nats of ham radio crash course last time
Josh you taught us about the basics of
radio but now we're gonna talk about
transmitting in the amateur space right
and specifically kind of the space for
technicians which is the first level of
amateur radio if you go out and take
your test to get your license at a
casual glance I see VHF UHF transmitter
receiver right this looks to me to be
the kind of gizmo that I was able to buy
at Walmart starting in the 90s when all
of a sudden we went from CB radios to a
bunch of UHF transmitters that suddenly
the range got a lot better yup it was
like a FRS GM GM our others so important
distinction with those radios is those
radios are licensed by the FCC the
license is attached to the radio if you
flip the back of it says FCC these
radios it's the operator I'm licensed by
the FCC so I'm pretty much allowed to
take whatever radio I want as long as
I'm following the rules and transmit
with them so when you buy some
off-the-shelf stuff that's essentially
like in the 90s the FCC carved out a
chunk of spectrum right and said go nuts
these are the channels right everybody
search rules the manufacturers must only
put out like a 1.5 watt output for those
FRS free so the hardware was
automatically just hobbled so you really
couldn't do anything bad with
generally yeah you can't go spurious lis
create interference all over the place
you have to generally live within the
little shoebox but you being a licensed
ham radio operator yeah it's like you
have no volume limit there is a physical
volume limit because at some point you
don't want to take something that's this
big next to your face and transmit more
than you know say eight watts okay but
yes as a licensed amateur I have an
upper floor of power output which is
like 1500 watts this is five but that's
still much better than an FRS radio for
example so just why I understand the
context the off the shell things when
you say channelized basically they carve
off this much spectrum and they and they
just divvy it up by channel right and
that's all - so you're jumping just in
this very small space we go and
kilohertz cycles or so you basically
have hundreds of frequency spaces that
you can operate it and some of those we
have informal band plans
some of those spaces are reserved for
just low earth satellites that we play
with amateur radios some of them are for
APRs which is like a digital mode so we
generally try and work with each other
and how we use this space these though
are for talking we talked about AM and
FM in shortwave where does VHF UHF exist
on it great right yeah that's perfect so
if you go up to the higher side of the
frequencies that is where VHF UHF is
that's the type of radios that punch
through the atmosphere so line of sight
communication so these guys are not
gonna broadcast Aegina from here no
maybe with the assistance of a lower
satellite but generally if you're just
using this to talk to a friend and I
didn't even think about that advanced
yeah off a satellite somewhat no the
satellite itself has the radio and
onboard we're uplinking on one frequency
it downlinks on another frequency like a
like a repeater would that that's a
repeater but what Krakow orbit repeater
yes fastest traveling at thousands and
thousands of miles that never occurred
to me because I thought Oh repeaters are
gonna be terrestrial right but not at
all yeah I feel like we're on the edge
of a cliff looking down I could see him
getting weird okay so I'm gonna guess
that without a license I should not just
grab one of these turn tune and say yo
what's up what's going on people you
definitely shouldn't transmit you can
receive just fine though because what's
happening is people are grabbing these
and it's it's fairly wide banded me
all of the vhf/uhf space and people have
kind of erroneously gone into emergency
channels oh dear and they've transmitted
and it's got in the way of people doing
first responders doing their job and
they've got arrested and fine so whoa if
you don't know don't transmit got it but
but everybody can listen everybody can
listen okay that's a that's a trap that
you could easily fall into in just
grabbing a walkie-talkie and think oh
this is like the one I had when I was a
kid I'm just gonna talk and talk and
talk right not realizing that you were
breaking any number of laws correct so
because you are licensed
what are your privileges that we don't
have well one is to transmit yeah but I
have a certain set of rules when I
transmit I have to use my callsign and
generally behave in a way of you know a
good steward of radio okay can you act
as sort of a obi-wan Kenobi and and and
like be the director and have us speak
on your behalf or only your voice can be
spoken no so I can have you transmitted
on this radio I'm within control
operator range of it so if we're gonna
wrap it out of your hands cuz you start
screaming room whatever you might you
just have to use my callsign
if he says DJ local Lee right hazy right
what if you just want to be DJ locally
DJ locally that's my DJ name radio is
dead we can't broadcast music we can't
do anything like that where we'd get an
F like let's talk about all the do's of
doats a language are you able to say
whatever you want stars' words on
graphic depictions of sex so no no okay
generally we don't curse we generally
don't go into graphic nature of some
things but you can't generally talk
about politics and religion that comes
up a lot in an age of cellphones why
would you even bother with Seabees
because what's the range on these I
guess you dial it up to maybe anywhere
from four miles up to forty to fifty
miles just from this unit house so we
could we could be like kids in the
middle of night like hey man what's
going on there's all kinds of things you
can do to increase the output power of
this you can get more power and with a
different radio you can put up a better
antenna you can go up on a mountain why
do we use this in this world of mobile
phones well the infrastructure goes down
right we're only as good as the cell
phone tower having power when the zombie
apocalypse happens your cell phones are
out your internet is
okay important distinction if the cell
tower goes down your local cell tower
your phone is done unless you're talking
over Wi-Fi but that has an extremely
small footprint so this when there's no
cell phones gets out nothing else which
brings me to my next question what does
it take to get a license so there's a
test I have a book here this is a study
guide and for each of you with the
radios where do you take the class to
this you just go to you knock on the
government's door there's a special
frequency I'm ready I mean I started
peppering you with what all of a sudden
is more because you're like are you
really jay-z they make a weird location
it's really weird so the FCC puts out
the guidelines as far as like the
question pool but then we have volunteer
examiner's totally a volunteer based
system to where you can go to a testing
location testing locations usually
follow amateur radio clubs and there's
generally some in every major city and
the license we're talking about is it a
universal ham radio license it is a
amateur radio license for the United
States at the technician level which is
the first then there's general and extra
got it branded by the FCC correct it's
an FCC license I feel like we can do P
get a ticket
yeah so it's 35 questions when you go
take the test it's multiple choice and
you have to pass with a 74% hey Jason
what are the FCC rules regarding the use
of phonetic alphabet for station
identification in the amateur radio
service a it is required when
transmitting emergency messages B it is
prohibited
C it is required when in contact with
foreign stations or D it's encouraged D
it's encouraged you are right technician
here we come that's it only 34 to go yep
so a lot of the test is more centered
around safety don't hurt yourself with
radio because you can actually Wow we
don't want to reset the counter here you
don't dial to the gamma band so safety
general rules of operation and that's
pretty much it there's a lot of other
technical aspects of it but it doesn't
go that down the rabbit starts you off
easy once you get your technician
license do do you get a bunch of letters
and numbers and that becomes your yeah
so you generally get a callsign it's
usually a two letter a number and then a
three letter so mine is ki six and AZ is
that something you want to publicly put
out so yes it can go to your home
address but you can also attach it to a
peel box if you want it to okay but
meanwhile it's like what are they gonna
do call like your house oh well if you
use your call sign and then you start
saying something that is no bueno
don't come find two people hands will
come and say you should probably not do
that on the air it doesn't get violent
we're all supposed to not do that but
we're a self policing group
self-regulated right right it's and
you're like reddit moderators right and
if you don't use your callsign and
you're out there transmitting we have
the easy equipment to find you we can
Direction fine so don't don't take off
the hands yeah yeah we're a surly Grove
jam they hands I want to see this in
action right what do we do here you have
a radio body a battery and an antenna
that's the only thing you really need
make sure you have an antenna on before
you turn it on that's always a good
safety thing it will protect the the
radio oh you don't have that on there
you're basically sending out RF you
could burn yourself oh and you could
damage the internal circuitry no turn
the volume knob and that turns it on and
don't click the PTT button no yeah
what's the dude I'm not gonna lie all I
want to do is press the the shameful
button that I must not touch yeah and
then DJ locally is back maybe I should
be the listener because we only have one
licensed operator here okay what if you
guys went all the way to HQ okay that
would be farther than I've ever had a
walkie talkie experience we could be on
the phone yeah that'll be our two-way
communication but I want to see if I can
hear it it's almost three miles away
yeah where we are as the casket
would that be able to work inside or no
you got to go outside because again
you're giving your radio the best chance
of working when you're out of doors
nothing attenuating the signal coming in
okay so we'll see if we're able to get
nearly three miles yeah of distance and
you can broadcast it I don't know
something to be will keep it legal but
yeah and you can do it as long as use my
callsign all right now when you say
legal now
is something as small as me raising my
hand is that gonna make a difference not
really but it might be extra dramatic
flair okay you ready Brian dude are you
guys out there ready to go I gotta tell
you man everything about this feels like
no way that this rinky-dink unit I'm
holding in my hand is gonna reach that
hole three vile I am confident in the
power of radio
you gotta believe man all right what I'm
at the highest point that's nearby the
old warehouse there are trees which I
know aren't great there's power lines
that are great but but I guess leather
okay we're ready to go I'm about to
transmit dude the FCC they figured out
that you don't have a license by the
emergency call button not the PTT button
oh I heard it on the other end so does
that mean like the cops are on there but
could you hear it I heard it over the
phone oh okay okay well here we go let
me try this again okay this is the
Chooch come back I got like a burst of
static the bad news is it was right next
to my ear at full volume what does that
mean if I just hear like a change you're
getting part of it so I have a same
radio five watt but with a longer
antenna I'm gonna try and call you he's
gonna try it on his own okay okay
oh dude hold on hit me with that again
ki 6 na z ki 6 n AZ radio test Radio
test oh no I got less of it that time
now Brian I want you to hit the a B
button and watch the arrow go from the 1
4 6 number to the 4 4 6 number okay we
just switched from VHF mode to UHF mode
dude I remember as a kid that the UHF
channels tended to come in better than
the VHF channels it is that was VHF is
that like the the FM am thing where it
was higher fidelity but shorter range
different than that or the reverse the
UHF is less resistant to the greenery
the trees the tree not affected by the
trees post less not a problem when
you're in UHF okay all right I'm
switched over to the 446 channel okay
we're gonna try it again all right
I mean yes I can hear you that's amazing
[Music]
some amateur ham cop listening right
yeah
we might be having uh somebody
monitoring going what's going on success
man we did it
that is remarkable do we violate any
laws no no we're good okay you can
transmit back so we're good all right
dude so so I loop back at Oh five
hundred four beers
all right I'm gonna go ahead and close
it out go ahead and give him seven three
from ki6 and easy okay what does that
mean ah it means uh thank you and this
is it best wishes
yeah well seven three two you two all
right we'll be at HQ those kids from
from stranger things I had those exact
realistic units used to have to go to
Radio Shack and buy individual crystals
cuz you only got three channels so you
would have one be the emergency which
you were never supposed to put it on one
would of course be the trucker Channel
which I think was 13 and then the other
I think we picked like 37 something that
was obscure enough that me and my friend
could talk across the neighborhood I had
to hang out with truckers